---
layout: post
title: Move-In Week Fall 2023 - Keep yourself healthy and safe!
date: 2023-08-15
---

Move-in week is an exciting time here in State College and at Penn State University! Moving furniture and boxes into the Penn State dorms can be a challenging task, but with some basic proper planning and safety measures, you can make the process smoother and safer. Here are five tips to help you move your belongings into Penn State dorms safely:

1. **Plan Ahead:** Before moving day, make a detailed plan. Know the dimensions of your dorm room and know the size of larger furniture items to ensure they will fit through doorways and in the available space. Create a layout plan for where you want to place your furniture and boxes within the room. This will help you avoid unnecessary struggles, reduce clutter, and ensure a more efficient move.
2. **Use Proper Lifting Techniques:** When lifting heavy boxes and furniture, always prioritize your safety. Bend your knees, not your back, and use your leg muscles to lift. Keep the item close to your body and maintain a straight back while walking. Avoid twisting while lifting, as this can lead to strain or injury. If something is too heavy, don't hesitate to ask for help or use tools like dollies or hand trucks.
3. **Gather Essential Tools:** Having the right tools can make moving easier and safer. Utilize dollies, hand trucks, furniture sliders, and moving straps to help transport heavy items more efficiently. These tools reduce the strain on your body and minimize the risk of accidents. Additionally, keep a basic toolbox on hand for any assembly or disassembly that may be required.
4. **Protect Your Belongings:** Safeguard your furniture and belongings from scratches, dings, and damage during the move. Use moving blankets, bubble wrap, or old sheets to wrap and pad delicate items. Secure drawers and cabinet doors to prevent them from opening during transit. Label boxes with their contents and the room they belong to for easy organization and unpacking.
5. **Enlist Help and Take Breaks:** Moving can be physically demanding, so don't hesitate to ask friends, family, or roommates for assistance. Having extra hands can make the process faster and safer. Take regular breaks to rest and hydrate, especially if you're moving in during a hot day. Overexertion can lead to accidents, so prioritize your well-being throughout the process.

Lastly, if you do sustain an injury moving yourself or your loved one into the dorms, please don’t hesitate to call our office. Dr. Emery will do his best to accommodate you and get you out of pain and dysfunction.

Remember, safety should always be a priority when moving heavy items. Take your time, plan carefully, and don't hesitate to ask for help when needed. YOU’VE GOT THIS, ALL, AND WELCOME BACK!

