---
layout: post
title: Arts Fest 2023 - Protect yourself in the heat!
date: 2023-07-10
---

It’s that time of summer again! The Central Pennsylvania Festival of the Arts (or Arts Fest) is happening Thursday, 7/13, through Sunday, 7/16. It’s truly an amazing event to visit in State College.

Keep in mind: it’s going to be hot! The temperature highs are in the upper 80s for all four days. Walking safely in hot weather is crucial to prevent heat-related injuries and illnesses, such as cramping, muscle strains, heat exhaustion, or dehydration. Here are five tips to help you stay safe while walking in hot weather:

1) **Stay hydrated.** Drink plenty of water before, during, and after your time out. Carry a water bottle with you and sip regularly to maintain hydration. Avoid excessive caffeine or alcohol consumption, since these contribute to dehydration. Remember, if you are thirsty, you are actually already dehydrated. Stay out in front of thirst to stay safe!
2) **Plan your Arts Fest time carefully.** Plan your time out walking during the cooler parts of the day, such as earlier in the morning or later in the evening. Avoid walking during the hottest hours, typically between 11 am and 3 pm, when the sun is at its peak.
3) **Dress appropriately.** Wear lightweight, loose-fitting, and breathable clothing made from moisture-wicking fabrics. Opt for light-colored clothing that reflects the sun's rays rather than absorbing them. Don’t forget that a wide-brimmed hat and sunglasses will protect your head and eyes from direct sunlight, too.
4) **Protect your skin.** Apply sunscreen with a high SPF (30 or higher) to exposed skin, even if it’s cloudy the day you attend Arts Fest. Reapply sunscreen every two hours, or more frequently if you're sweating excessively. Additionally, consider using a lip balm with SPF to protect your lips from sunburn.
5) **Take care of any leg injuries before attending.** If you are struggling with hip, knee, or ankle pain, then the extra effort to walk on that injury is going to increase your sweating and heat intolerance. At the very least, wear a protective brace, sleeve, or some form of joint support to reduce your pain during the festival. If you are needing more assistance and support, consider scheduling an appointment with Dr. Emery to get some pain relief before visiting all the vendors!

**Bonus tip: Listen to your body and pace yourself.** If you start feeling lightheaded, dizzy, excessively fatigued, or experience any other symptoms of heat-related illness, find shade or a cool indoor space, and rest immediately. It's important to prioritize your well-being over seeing every piece of art at the show. Seek medical attention if necessary.

Remember, safety should always come first, so take precautions this weekend when going out to enjoy the beautiful art coming to our borough. The weather conditions are going to be hot, but that doesn’t mean you need to stay away. It means taking some extra steps to enjoy the event safely!
